# Introduction to Graph Theory

If you have ever seen a problem that involves a set of entities and establishes relationships
between them, you have seen a problem that can potentially be solved using Graph Theory. Graphs are 
a fundamental data structure in Computer Science and can be used to model a wide variety of problem 
scenarios. Given a graphical interpretation of a problem, we can take advantage of many graph-based 
algorithms available to come up with a solution. Some noteworthy examples of classical graph theory
problems include graph traversal, finding shortest-paths, topological sorting, and many more. This 
makes Graph Theory a fascinating and essential topic to master when it comes to Competitive 
Programming.

## Terminology

Formally, a **graph** can be defined as $G=(V,E)$ where $V$ is a set of **vertices** and $E$ is a 
set of **edges**. Vertices can represent any meaningful entities in a problem context. Edges 
represent direct relationships between pairs of vertices. A pair of vertices connected by an edge
are said to be **adjacent** to each other. If there is no edge connecting a pair of vertices, they 
may still be indirectly connected using a path. A **path** is a sequence of vertices, where 
subsequent vertices are connected by edges. Edges can be **directed** or **undirected**. Directed 
edges represent one-way relationships. Edges can be **weighted** or **unweighted**. A weighted edge 
has a value associated with it that can represent a cost of using that edge, the distance between 
the two vertices, or any other meaning.

## Examples of Graphical Interpretations of Scenarios

To begin solving problems using Graph Theory, we need to know how to identify a graphical 
interpretation for a problem. Below are some classical examples of scenarios that can be modeled as
graphs:

1. **Road Networks**: In a road network, intersections can be represented as vertices and roads as
edges. If the road network includes one-way roads, we can represent them using directed edges. We 
can assign weights to edges to represent the lengths of the roads. A path on this a graph would 
represent the total distance to travel from one intersection to another.

2. **Flight Routes**: In a flight route network, airports can be represented as vertices and flights
as edges. If the flights are one-way, we can use directed edges. We can assign weights to edges to
represent the cost of the flight or the distance between the airports. A path on this graph would
represent a sequence of flights to travel from one airport to another. 

3. **Social Networks**: In a social network, users can be represented as vertices. Edges can be used
to represent relationships between users. For example, if two users are friends, we can draw an 
edge. If the relationship is one-way (e.g. following on Instagram), we can use directed edges. One 
might assign weights to edges to represent the strength of the relationship, although it may seem
nonsensical to quantify the strength of a friendship. 

Graphs can be used model a whole variety of scenarios. So keep an open mind and be
creative when trying to identify a graphical interpretation for a problem!

<br />

<FITBBlock
  hint="What are the entities being connected? What is being used to connect these entities?"
>
  A network technician is connecting computers in a local network using cables. In a graphical
  interpretation of this problem, each node would represent a <FITBBlank correctAnswer="computer"/>. 
  Each edge would represent a <FITBBlank correctAnswer="cable"/>.
</FITBBlock>

